feat(http): Add X-Robots-Tag header (#37079)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/x-robots-tag/index.md

---
title: X-Robots-Tag
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/X-Robots-Tag
page-type: http-header
status:
  - non-standard
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

The **`X-Robots-Tag`** {{Glossary("response header")}} defines how {{glossary("Crawler", "crawlers")}} should index URLs. While not part of any specification, it is a de-facto standard method for communicating with search bots, web crawlers, and similar user agents.
Search-related crawlers use the rules from the `X-Robots-Tag` header to adjust how to present web pages or other resources in search results.

Indexing rules defined via `<meta name="robots">` tags and `X-Robots-Tag` headers are discovered when a URL is crawled.
Specifying rules in a HTTP header is appropriate for non-HTML documents like images, PDFs, or other media.

> [!NOTE]

> > Only cooperative robots follow these rules and a crawler still needs to access the page in order to read these rules (see [Interaction with robots.txt](#interaction_with_robots.txt)).
> > A {{Glossary("robots.txt")}} file is more appropriate to restrict or prevent bandwidth consumption by crawlers.

Author: ```suggestion
> Only cooperative robots follow these rules, and a crawler still needs to access the page to read them (see [Interaction with robots.txt](#interaction_with_robots.txt)).
> If you want to prevent bandwidth consumption by crawlers, a restrictive {{Glossary("robots.txt")}} file is more effective than indexing rules in the HTTP header or meta tags.
```

---
title: X-Robots-Tag
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/X-Robots-Tag
page-type: http-header
status:
  - non-standard
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

The **`X-Robots-Tag`** {{Glossary("response header")}} defines how {{glossary("Crawler", "crawlers")}} should index URLs. While not part of any specification, it is a de-facto standard method for communicating with search bots, web crawlers, and similar user agents.
Search-related crawlers use the rules from the `X-Robots-Tag` header to adjust how to present web pages or other resources in search results.

Indexing rules defined via `<meta name="robots">` tags and `X-Robots-Tag` headers are discovered when a URL is crawled.
Specifying rules in a HTTP header is appropriate for non-HTML documents like images, PDFs, or other media.

> [!NOTE]
> Only cooperative robots follow these rules, and a crawler still needs to access the page to read them (see [Interaction with robots.txt](#interaction_with_robots.txt)).

> > If you want to prevent bandwidth consumption by crawlers, a restrictive {{Glossary("robots.txt")}} file is more effective than indexing rules in the HTTP header or meta tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you want to prevent bandwidth consumption by crawlers, a restrictive {{Glossary("robots.txt")}} file is more effective than indexing rules in the HTTP header or meta tags as it is read before any download commences.
```
or something like that. Making it clearer why this works.

Author: nice, editing as "it can block a resource from crawling."

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>{{Glossary("Response header")}}</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>No</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
X-Robots-Tag: <indexing-rules>
```

> ## Directives

Author: `directives` is good here because we're describing 'instructions' for the recipient, it's common in the header pages. It's not always accurate, though, sometimes the fields are just values (informational), not instructions, but it's a good fit on this page.

> - `<indexing-rules>`

Author: fixed in db796f87429dc57a8b1ffb4f379e8dffbffe06e0

  - : A comma-separated list of rules for indexing the resource at the current URL.
    Any of the following rules may be used:

    - `all`
      - : No restrictions for indexing or serving in search results.
        This rule is the default value and has no effect if explicitly listed.
    - `noindex`
      - : Do not show this page, media, or resource in search results.

>         If you don't specify this rule, the page, media, or resource may be indexed and shown in search results.

Author: minor reword in db796f87429dc57a8b1ffb4f379e8dffbffe06e0

    - `nofollow`
      - : Do not follow the links on this page.
        If you don't specify this rule, search engines may use the links on the page to discover those linked pages.
    - `none`
      - : Equivalent to `noindex, nofollow`.
    - `nosnippet`
      - : Do not show a text snippet or video preview in the search results for this page.
        A static image thumbnail (if available) may still be visible.
        If you don't specify this rule, search engines may generate a text snippet and video preview based on information found on the page.

>         To exclude certain sections of your content from appearing in search result snippets, use the `data-nosnippet` HTML attribute.

Author: added in db796f87429dc57a8b1ffb4f379e8dffbffe06e0

    - `indexifembedded`
      - : A search engine is allowed to index the content of a page if it's embedded in another page through iframes or similar HTML tags, in spite of a `noindex` rule.
        `indexifembedded` only has an effect if it's accompanied by `noindex`.
    - `max-snippet: <number>`
      - : Use a maximum of `<number>` characters as a textual snippet for this search result.
        Ignored if no valid `<number>` is specified.
    - `max-image-preview: <setting>`

      - : The maximum size of an image preview for this page in a search results.
        If omitted, search engines may show an image preview of the default size.
        If you don't want search engines to use larger thumbnail images, specify a `max-image-preview` value of `standard` or `none`. Values include:

        - `none`
          - : No image preview is to be shown.
        - `standard`
          - : A default image preview may be shown.
        - `large`
          - : A larger image preview, up to the width of the viewport, may be shown.

    - `max-video-preview: <number>`
      - : Use a maximum of `<number>` seconds as a video snippet for videos on this page in search results.

>         If you don't specify the `max-video-preview` rule, search engines may show a video snippet in search results, and a search engines decide how long a preview may be.

Author: done in db796f87429dc57a8b1ffb4f379e8dffbffe06e0

        Ignored if no valid `<number>` is specified.
        Special values are as follows:
        - `0`
          - : At most, a static image may be used, in accordance to the `max-image-preview` setting.
        - `-1`
          - : No video length limit.
    - `notranslate`
      - : Don't offer translation of this page in search results.
        If omitted, search engines may translate the search result title and snippet into the language of the search query.
    - `noimageindex`
      - : Do not index images on this page.
        If omitted, images on the page may be indexed and shown in search results.
    - `unavailable_after: <date/time>`

      - : Requests not to show this page in search results after the specified `<date/time>`.
        Ignored if no valid `<date/time>` is specified.
        A date must be specified in a format such as {{RFC("822")}}, {{RFC("850")}}, or ISO 8601.

        By default there is no expiration date for content.

>         If you don't specify this rule, this page may be shown in search results indefinitely.

Author: done in db796f87429dc57a8b1ffb4f379e8dffbffe06e0

        Crawlers are expected to considerably decrease the crawl rate of the URL after the specified date and time.

## Description

Indexing rules via `<meta name="robots">` and `X-Robots-Tag` are discovered when a URL is crawled.
Most crawlers support rules in the `X-Robots-Tag` HTTP header that can be used in a `<meta name="robots">` tag.

In the case of conflicting robot rules within the `X-Robots-Tag` or between the `X-Robots-Tag` HTTP header and the `<meta name="robots">` tag, the more restrictive rule applies.

> Neither's rules will apply if [blocked from being read](#interaction_with_robotstxt) by a `robots.txt` file with a `noindex, nofollow` or `none`.

Author: right, it's important to have a distinction that robots.txt and these indexing rules are different, maybe we need a reference page (and not a glossary) on robots.txt

For example, if a page has both `max-snippet:50` and `nosnippet` rules, the `nosnippet` rule will apply.

Some values are mutually exclusive, like `index` and `noindex`, or `follow` and `nofollow`.
In these cases the crawler's behavior is undefined and may vary.

> [!NOTE]

> > The `X-Robots-Tag` rules may not be treated the same by all search engines.

Author: removed in db796f87429dc57a8b1ffb4f379e8dffbffe06e0

## Examples

### Using X-Robots-Tag

The following `X-Robots-Tag` header adds `noindex`, asking crawlers not to show this page, media, or resource in search results:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:08:49 GMT
X-Robots-Tag: noindex
```

### Multiple headers

The following response has two `X-Robots-Tag` headers, each with an indexing rule specified:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:08:49 GMT
X-Robots-Tag: noimageindex
X-Robots-Tag: unavailable_after: Wed, 03 Dec 2025 13:09:53 GMT
```

### Specifying user agents

It's possible to specify which user agent the rules should apply to.
The following example contains two `X-Robots-Tag` headers which ask that `googlebot` not follow the links on this page and that a fictional `BadBot` crawler not index the page or follow any links on it, either:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:08:49 GMT
X-Robots-Tag: googlebot: nofollow
X-Robots-Tag: BadBot: noindex, nofollow
```

## Specifications

Not part of any current specification.

## See also

> - {{HTTPHeader("Forwarded")}}
> - {{HTTPHeader("X-Forwarded-For")}}
> - {{Glossary("Search engine")}}

Author: Removing as not really that relevant

```suggestion
- {{Glossary("Search engine")}}
```

---
title: X-Robots-Tag
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/X-Robots-Tag
page-type: http-header
status:
  - non-standard
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

> The **`X-Robots-Tag`** {{Glossary("response header")}} is a de-facto standard header for requesting how {{glossary("Crawler", "crawlers")}} should index URLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`X-Robots-Tag`** {{Glossary("response header")}} defines how {{glossary("Crawler", "crawlers")}} should index URLs. While not part of the HTTP header specification, it is the de-facto standard for communicating with search bots, web crawlers, and similar user agents. 
```

not sure if "de-facto" is understood, so suggested a longer explanation that explains this isn't a standard but is used everywhere while also making it clear that in this section user agent doesn't refer to a browser; though if they're updating headers, they may know this ;) so maybe not necessary.

Search-related crawlers use the rules from the `X-Robots-Tag` header to adjust how to present web pages or other resources in search results.

Indexing rules defined via `<meta name="robots">` tags and `X-Robots-Tag` headers are discovered when a URL is crawled.
Specifying rules in a HTTP header is appropriate for non-HTML documents like images, PDFs, or other media.

> [!NOTE]
> Only cooperative robots follow these rules and a crawler still needs to access the page in order to read these rules (see [Interaction with robots.txt](#interaction_with_robots.txt)).

> > A {{Glossary("robots.txt")}} file is more appropriate to restrict or prevent bandwidth consumption by crawlers.

Author: I guess there's two points:

* there's no guarantee that bots comply with the rules in the headers/meta tags, especially malicious bots. 
* if you want to stop crawlers from generating too much traffic, a robots.txt is usually a better option, although it can also be ignored.

Is this better?

>Only cooperative robots follow these rules, and a crawler still needs to access the page to read them (see [Interaction with robots.txt](#interaction_with_robots.txt)). If you want to prevent bandwidth consumption by crawlers, a restrictive {{Glossary("robots.txt")}} file is more effective than indexing rules in the HTTP header or meta tags.

> > A {{Glossary("robots.txt")}} file is more appropriate to restrict or prevent bandwidth consumption by crawlers.

Reviewer: yes. that suggestion is excellent!

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>{{Glossary("Response header")}}</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>No</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http

> X-Robots-Tag: <indexing-rules>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
X-Robots-Tag: <indexing-rules>
X-Robots-Tag: <bot-name>: <indexing-rules>
```
is the bot name part of the indexing rules or should we add some version of this suggestion? (or `<UA-targets>` if the bots are comma-separated, or whatever the defacto unofficial or official name is.

Author: >is the bot name part of the indexing rules or should we add some version of this suggestion?

Yeah we should mention this here. I'll reply below

```

## Directives

- `<indexing-rules>`

>   - : A comma-separated list of rules for indexing the resource at the current URL.

Reviewer: each directive is a comma-separated list, but there can be multiple directives in the header. Should we mention that here or above?

Author: Maybe the top-level `<indexing-rules>` is misleading, we could un-nest the list and rework the syntax section to be like:

````md

One or more indexing rules as a comma-separated list:

```
X-Robots-Tag: <indexing-rule>
X-Robots-Tag: <indexing-rule>, <indexing-rule>, …
```

Indexing rules after an optional `<bot-name>:` specify the user agent that the rules should apply to:

```
X-Robots-Tag: <indexing-rule>, <bot-name>: <indexing-rule>
X-Robots-Tag: <bot-name>: <indexing-rule>, <indexing-rule>, …
```
````

Author: should be clearer in db796f87429dc57a8b1ffb4f379e8dffbffe06e0

    Any of the following rules may be used:

    - `all`
      - : No restrictions for indexing or serving in search results.

>         This rule is the default value and has no effect if explicitly listed.

Author: Yes, that's my understanding. I don't know any case you want to set

```
X-Robots-Tag: all
```

Unless you're being really explicit for some reason, or doing something like this?

```
X-Robots-Tag: SomeBot: all, otherbot: noindex
```

But I suppose that's the same as:

```
X-Robots-Tag: otherbot: noindex
```

>         This rule is the default value and has no effect if explicitly listed.

Reviewer: there's no case where someone would want both. I just wanted to confirm for the sake of being pedantic; if someone makes a mistake, it will still noindex.

>         This rule is the default value and has no effect if explicitly listed.

Author: >if someone makes a mistake, it will still noindex

Yup!

    - `noindex`
      - : Do not show this page, media, or resource in search results.
        If you don't specify this rule, the page, media, or resource may be indexed and shown in search results.
    - `nofollow`
      - : Do not follow the links on this page.
        If you don't specify this rule, search engines may use the links on the page to discover those linked pages.
    - `none`
      - : Equivalent to `noindex, nofollow`.
    - `nosnippet`
      - : Do not show a text snippet or video preview in the search results for this page.
        A static image thumbnail (if available) may still be visible.
        If you don't specify this rule, search engines may generate a text snippet and video preview based on information found on the page.

>         To exclude certain sections of your content from appearing in search result snippets, use the `data-nosnippet` HTML attribute.

Author: We don't have any docs for this yet / no other hits in content

>         To exclude certain sections of your content from appearing in search result snippets, use the `data-nosnippet` HTML attribute.

Author: Good idea 💡

>         To exclude certain sections of your content from appearing in search result snippets, use the `data-nosnippet` HTML attribute.

Author: done in db796f87429dc57a8b1ffb4f379e8dffbffe06e0

    - `indexifembedded`
      - : A search engine is allowed to index the content of a page if it's embedded in another page through iframes or similar HTML tags, in spite of a `noindex` rule.

>         `indexifembedded` only has an effect if it's accompanied by `noindex`.

Author: >it will still be indexed if embedded when noindex is not set?

If the site is noindexed, you can make an exception to allow it to be indexed when it's in an iframe with `indexifembedded`.

    - `max-snippet: <number>`
      - : Use a maximum of `<number>` characters as a textual snippet for this search result.
        Ignored if no valid `<number>` is specified.
    - `max-image-preview: <setting>`

      - : The maximum size of an image preview for this page in a search results.
        If you don't specify the `max-image-preview` rule, search engines may show an image preview of the default size.
        If you don't want search engines to use larger thumbnail images, specify a `max-image-preview` value of `standard` or `none`.

>         Accepted `<setting>` values:

Author: Looks good

        - `none`
          - : No image preview is to be shown.
        - `standard`
          - : A default image preview may be shown.
        - `large`
          - : A larger image preview, up to the width of the viewport, may be shown.

    - `max-video-preview: <number>`
      - : Use a maximum of `<number>` seconds as a video snippet for videos on this page in search results.
        If you don't specify the `max-video-preview` rule, search engines may show a video snippet in search results, and a search engines decide how long a preview may be.
        Ignored if no valid `<number>` is specified.
        Special values are as follows:
        - `0`
          - : At most, a static image may be used, in accordance to the `max-image-preview` setting.
        - `-1`

>           - : No video length limit.

Author: `-1` isn't equal to omitting the directive, it's moreso a hint that an engine can use "as much as it wants" when serving results - probably largely implementation-specific, I presume they all have different (and maybe frequently-changing) behavior

        If you don't specify this rule, search engines may provide a translation of the title link and snippet of a result for results that aren't in the language of the search query.
    - `noimageindex`
      - : Do not index images on this page.
        If you don't specify this value, images on the page may be indexed and shown in search results.
    - `unavailable_after: <date/time>`

      - : Requests not to show this page in search results after the specified `<date/time>`.
        Ignored if no valid `<date/time>` is specified.
        A date must be specified in a format such as {{RFC("822")}}, {{RFC("850")}}, or ISO 8601.

        By default there is no expiration date for content.
        If you don't specify this rule, this page may be shown in search results indefinitely.
        Crawlers are expected to considerably decrease the crawl rate of the URL after the specified date and time.

## Description

Indexing rules via `<meta name="robots">` and `X-Robots-Tag` are discovered when a URL is crawled.
Most crawlers support any rule in a `X-Robots-Tag` HTTP header that can be used in a `<meta name="robots">` tag.

> In the case of conflicting robots rules, the more restrictive rule applies.

Author: I think the last suggestion is maybe the most fitting although it's not explicitly defined when talking about header v tag conflicts, there's only indexing rules, which I presume are combined into a set from headers and meta tags, then parsed. I'll add the last suggestion here.

For example, if a page has both `max-snippet:50` and `nosnippet` rules, the `nosnippet` rule will apply.

Some values are mutually exclusive, like `index` and `noindex`, or `follow` and `nofollow`.
In these cases the crawler's behavior is undefined and may vary.

> [!NOTE]
> It's possible that `X-Robots-Tag` rules may not be treated the same by all search engines.

### Interaction with robots.txt

If a page is disallowed from crawling through a `robots.txt` file, then any information about indexing or serving rules specified using `<meta name="robots">` or the `X-Robots-Tag` HTTP header will not be detected and will therefore be ignored.

A page that can't be crawled may still be indexed if it is referenced by another document.

> If you want to remove a page from search indexes, `X-Robots-Tag: noindex` will typically work, but a robot must first revisit the page to detect the `X-Robots-Tag` rule.

Reviewer: does it download the whole page, or does it not download upon encountering the header?

Author: It's probably all downloaded at the crawl time. It's possible that a crawler might cancel transferring data if it's detected what it's looking for, or isn't interested in the rest of the data, but for the purposes of this doc, crawled=downloaded, and the indexing rules (in the headers) can influence what happens with the resource afterwards.

A good thing to highlight / get across in this section is that `robots.txt` can prevent the crawl in the first place, and the indexing rules let you adjust what it does with what it's downloaded (is it served / displayed in search results or not).

Author: I think I can resolve, not sure if there's something beneficial to add for this section.

## Examples

### Using X-Robots-Tag

The following `X-Robots-Tag` header adds `noindex`, asking crawlers not to show this page, media, or resource in search results:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:08:49 GMT
X-Robots-Tag: noindex
```

### Multiple headers

The following response has two `X-Robots-Tag` headers, each with an indexing rule specified:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:08:49 GMT
X-Robots-Tag: noimageindex

> X-Robots-Tag: unavailable_after: 25 Jun 2010 15:00:00 PST

Author: Should probably use a future date :)

```suggestion
X-Robots-Tag: unavailable_after: Wed, 03 Dec 2025 13:09:53 GMT
```

> X-Robots-Tag: unavailable_after: Wed, 03 Dec 2025 13:09:53 GMT

Reviewer: is `X-Robots-Tag: noimageindex,  unavailable_after: Wed, 03 Dec 2025 13:09:53 GMT` valid?
if yes, maybe say it's the same, so the "comma-separated" is shown as the equivalent of multiple directives. 

```
The following response has two `X-Robots-Tag` headers that are equivalent. Indexing rules can be specified as a comma-separated list or as multiple headers.
```

Author: I think the examples in db796f87429dc57a8b1ffb4f379e8dffbffe06e0 cover these cases

```

### Specifying user agents

It's possible to specify which user agent the rules should apply to.
The following example contains two `X-Robots-Tag` headers which ask that `googlebot` not follow the links on this page and that a fictional `BadBot` crawler not index the page or follow any links on it, either:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:08:49 GMT
X-Robots-Tag: googlebot: nofollow
X-Robots-Tag: BadBot: noindex, nofollow
```

## Specifications

Not part of any current specification.

## See also

> - {{HTTPHeader("Forwarded")}}

Reviewer: do we have a guide on setting HTTP headers that we can link to?

Author: Not yet, but that's a good idea. We could have a how-to page for this in the HTTP section, it might be good to talk about cases where you have a website but can't control headers (GitHub pages?)

---
title: X-Robots-Tag
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/X-Robots-Tag
page-type: http-header
status:
  - non-standard
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

The **`X-Robots-Tag`** {{Glossary("response header")}} defines how {{glossary("Crawler", "crawlers")}} should index URLs.
While not part of any specification, it is a de-facto standard method for communicating with search bots, web crawlers, and similar user agents.
Search-related crawlers use the rules from the `X-Robots-Tag` header to adjust how to present web pages or other resources in search results.

Indexing rules defined via `<meta name="robots">` elements and `X-Robots-Tag` headers are discovered when a URL is crawled.
Specifying indexing rules in a HTTP header is useful for non-HTML documents like images, PDFs, or other media.

> [!NOTE]

> > Only cooperative robots follow these rules, and a crawler still needs to access the resource to read headers and meta tags (see [Interaction with robots.txt](#interaction_with_robots.txt)).

Reviewer 2: One more stray tag :D

```suggestion
> Only cooperative robots follow these rules, and a crawler still needs to access the resource to read headers and meta elements (see [Interaction with robots.txt](#interaction_with_robots.txt)).
```

> If you want to prevent bandwidth consumption by crawlers, a restrictive {{Glossary("robots.txt")}} file is more effective than indexing rules as it blocks resources from being crawled entirely.

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>{{Glossary("Response header")}}</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>No</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

One or more indexing rules as a comma-separated list:

```http
X-Robots-Tag: <indexing-rule>

> X-Robots-Tag: <indexing-rule>, <indexing-rule>, …

Author: ```suggestion
X-Robots-Tag: <indexing-rule>, …, <indexing-ruleN>
```

```

An optional `<bot-name>:` specifies the user agent that the subsequent rules should apply to:

```http
X-Robots-Tag: <indexing-rule>, <bot-name>: <indexing-rule>

> X-Robots-Tag: <bot-name>: <indexing-rule>, <indexing-rule>, …

Author: ```suggestion
X-Robots-Tag: <bot-name>: <indexing-rule>, …, <indexing-rule>
```

- `noimageindex`
  - : Do not index images on this page.
    If omitted, images on the page may be indexed and shown in search results.
- `unavailable_after: <date/time>`

  - : Requests not to show this page in search results after the specified `<date/time>`.
    Ignored if no valid `<date/time>` is specified.
    A date must be specified in a format such as {{RFC("822")}}, {{RFC("850")}}, or ISO 8601.

    By default there is no expiration date for content.
    If omitted, this page may be shown in search results indefinitely.
    Crawlers are expected to considerably decrease the crawl rate of the URL after the specified date and time.

## Description

Indexing rules via `<meta name="robots">` and `X-Robots-Tag` are discovered when a URL is crawled.
Most crawlers support rules in the `X-Robots-Tag` HTTP header that can be used in a `<meta name="robots">` tag.

In the case of conflicting robot rules within the `X-Robots-Tag` or between the `X-Robots-Tag` HTTP header and the `<meta name="robots">` tag, the more restrictive rule applies.
For example, if a page has both `max-snippet:50` and `nosnippet` rules, the `nosnippet` rule will apply.

> Indexing rules are not applied if paths are blocked from being crawled by a `robots.txt` file.

Author: ```suggestion
Indexing rules won't be discovered if paths are blocked from being crawled by a `robots.txt` file.
```

## Examples

### Using X-Robots-Tag

The following `X-Robots-Tag` header adds `noindex`, asking crawlers not to show this page, media, or resource in search results:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:08:49 GMT
X-Robots-Tag: noindex
```

### Multiple headers

The following response has two `X-Robots-Tag` headers, each with an indexing rule specified:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:08:49 GMT
X-Robots-Tag: noimageindex
X-Robots-Tag: unavailable_after: Wed, 03 Dec 2025 13:09:53 GMT
```

### Specifying user agents

It's possible to specify which user agent the rules should apply to.
The following example contains two `X-Robots-Tag` headers which ask that `googlebot` not follow the links on this page and that a fictional `BadBot` crawler not index the page or follow any links on it, either:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:08:49 GMT
X-Robots-Tag: googlebot: nofollow
X-Robots-Tag: BadBot: noindex, nofollow
```

In the response below, the same indexing rules are defined, but in a single header.
Each indexing rule applies to the user agent specified behind it:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2024 17:08:49 GMT

> X-Robots-Tag: BadBot: noindex, nofollow, googlebot: nofollow

Reviewer: I assume this is correct, but I find it odd. It's a comma-separated list, but no ability to group. How does the bot know it's this:

`(BadBot: noindex, nofollow), (googlebot: nofollow)`

and not:

`(BadBot: noindex), (nofollow), (googlebot: nofollow)`

should we mention that an unnamed `all except named UAs coming later` goes first.

in this case, does the `notranslate` apply to google or not? (it doesn't matter for badbot, since bb is none.:

`X-Robots-Tag: notranslate, BadBot: noindex, nofollow, googlebot: max-snippet: 44`

maybe we should mention that the "for all" goes first.

Author: >"for all" goes first.

Right. In the examples they also split them onto separate headers, like:

```
X-Robots-Tag: googlebot: nofollow
X-Robots-Tag: BadBot: noindex, nofollow
```

And this is for (human) readability, but they're all combined into one value in the end. So the hint would be:

* split into separate headers if you want to keep it legible for maintenance
* If you're combining rules into a single header, put things that apply to all crawlers first, then add scoped rules.

In fact, there's an example in the linked doc we can use (for meta tags, but the principle is the same):

>For situations where multiple crawlers are specified along with different rules, the search engine will use the sum of the negative rules. For example:
> ```html
> <meta name="robots" content="nofollow">
> <meta name="googlebot" content="noindex">
> ```
> The page containing these meta tags will be interpreted as having a `noindex, nofollow` rule when crawled by Googlebot.

Reviewer: Not sure if you want to update this area and want me to re-review. Otherwise, it's approved.

Author: I'll apply these changes and I'll re-request another last once-over. No rush on merging this one 👍🏻
